during introduced used to be Prince what  do I call you now in his first TV  interview he reveals his new identity  that's the other person and you haven't  determined what sex that other person in  to meet his new bride and what do you  call him the go inside is fascinating  world hear your favorite songs and  experience a concert you'll never forget  [Music]  you'll be talking about this one next  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  okay it is an event the artist formerly  known as Prince is  [Applause]  and whether you're a fan or not his  first TV interview is full of surprises  this is what everybody's going to be  talking about wish I was in a beauty  shop later today honey  he is a shy talking in front of an  audience however he is anything but that  on stage his extraordinary talents began  at a very early age he was born Prince  Rogers Nelson in 1958 never the typical  boy next door  Prince was a young musical genius who  used music as an escape from life in a  turbulent household Prince Louise pop  music in the eighties thrilling  audiences with his risque performances  and his sexual lyrics when he wasn't  turning out his own top-ten hits  he was spinning gold for others like  Sinead O'Connor  [Music]  Sheena Easton and Chaka Khan millions of  fans literally worshipped the Prince of  Purple Rain  in 1992 he signed the biggest record  contract of the business but being  soured and prints spent the last few  years battling his record label the  controversy was over artistic control  Prince protested by scrawling slave on  his cheek he also changed his name to an  unpronounceable symbol today he is a new  man with a beautiful bride who just gave  birth to their first child now he's  finally free from his record contract  and is celebrating with a new CD set  called appropriately enough emancipation  [Music]  [Applause]  because because he changed his name to  assemble everybody was asking me what  are you gonna call him I had no idea  until our first meeting at his recording  studio Paisley Park is an impressive  65,000 square foot complex the artist  built to be his state of the art music  video and film recording palace in  suburban Minneapolis the building is  seen in his latest video betcha by golly  Wow  [Music]  I went there for our first meeting look  it's him  oh you're pretty like you pretty really  pretty  how's everything couldn't be bad really  this is a nice place you got here I  thought I had a nice place pear was all  planned before they covered it up for me  this is cool  first of all what do I call you friend I  hope friends good things good you know  that a lot of America and the world is  confused about this whole name what we  should how to address you what the  symbol means and I want you to clarify  for us all well they're just like  Muhammad Ali and Malcolm X people like  that change their name and some people  take names that are hard to pronounce it  just so happens I pick one that you  can't pronounce I don't know how to  pronounce it then if everyone even know  how to read yeah if ever I'm told you  can be the first to know uh-huh  how to pronounce it yeah so how did it  come about the symbol came to you and  the symbol is like a combination of  female and male yes and that is why  you're now we have no name for you well  you do have a name for me and the  interesting thing about it is that um  some people think sometimes it's me  trying to pull a power-play or something  like that I mean you can type it on the  typewriter I can give you the computer  font I've seen how you do it so we're  going to show you right now on the  screen how to do it on the typewriter so  it wasn't about publicity or did you  even recognize or think that it would  cause this much of a stir about what  your name was or what you were no long  run publicity tip I wasn't calculus yeah  I could do without that yeah I've seen  you refer to many times as the artist  but what are your friends call you just  again folks I've seen around here I find  quite interesting some people now call  me sir they just call you sir mmm-hmm I  never called me that before that's  interesting  do you think it left some people around  here a little confused at first yeah  what is the best bet his wedding  co-produced on the Emancipation album  now his drummer used to be his dancer I  call him a waltz  amen a bruh this is Arlene and her nanny  I might displace my assistant how we  call him very hard question sometime we  walk in the hall and I have to say  excuse me can I talk to you and when I  talk to when I say sir that way I got he  attention  my name is Kim berry I'm his personal  hair stylist and I call him boss  I'm nearly Garcia I might this mother he  is my son-in-law I sometimes call him  son-in-law and sometimes I call him son  I'm mr. Hayes a keyboard player and I  called him bra  [Laughter]  most people call him simply the artist  he describes his new 3d CD set  emancipation as the album he was born to  make I've been listening to it during my  workouts every day  [Applause]  [Music]  I've been listening to every loving  every deliver and every cut filling free  to local beautiful form some of his hits  from the quints days as the artist a new  power generation  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  and captured his heart we'll be right  back this ad is probably the most joyous  one I've made it's by far the most  romantic because they've never been this  much enough did you think you'd find a  love like this yeah it was a dream it  was a dream  hi hi I almost will tire tune  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  is a running onstage image it's quite  different than the soft-spoken man I  talked with who dreams of having a big  family sex in the summer this is the  song that featured the ultrasound  heartbeat of your baby yeah what we did  was take a microphone and place it on my  taste stomach and move it around with  the jail till we get the right it's fun  and you know you start to hear that and  then we put the drugs around that to me  when you heard that sound for the first  time what did you think or feel inside  yourself  I was pretty much speechless it it  really grounds you makes you realize  that things you thought were important  aren't ready  [Music]  let's have a baby such a beautiful song  I gotta tell you my friend the artist is  in love y'all in love gone in love I met  his new bride during my visit to Paisley  Park if you spend any time around the  newlyweds it's very clear that he has  found his most beautiful girl in the  world they first met in 1990 and married  just this year on Valentine's Day  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  tell us the story when you saw her  outside at a concert I think it was in  Germany and you just said in passing to  a friend I saw earlier mother outside a  concert in Frankfurt and I said that's  my future wife just as you know and what  did you think first of all you're  introduced to Prince and I understand  you all became friends did you think  this is my future husband no you didn't  what did you think well I mean I was 16  when I met him so just the idea of  meeting him I was really scared before I  met him and who and then when I met him  I just felt this I was just calm and I  didn't feel nervous the couples say they  are soul mates and believe they knew  each other in a previous life I feel  like she was either my sister or we were  the same person or something in another  life there's a closeness then that you  know is right and you don't argue it  isn't this all kind of weird all depends  on how you look at life yeah it seems to  me I would just say this is a  description of the two of you and when  he talks about you there's a thing that  happens in his eyes I do feel like that  I've come closer to who I aspire to be  by being with her really and what does  she do for you that you didn't that you  didn't have alone  she makes it easier to talk to God well  yeah I could cry hmm was it like a  traditional ceremony like if there's a  minister yes you take and you say and  till death do us and the whole thing we  had a very small wedding we only invited  friends and family mostly family and  there was a big empty section in the  church and she said that she's glad that  it was empty because they were left for  him for the angels is he romantic he's  romantic yeah I'm thinking if he ain't  romantic who is like rose petals in the  you know in the bed and the bathtub in  there just all roses but for me the most  romantic thing that he's done is his  write these beautiful songs for me  uh-huh  you know there's let's have a baby  because of that I mean I got pregnant  [Music]  let's have a baby  [Music]  [Music]  it's been rumoured that the couple's  baby boy was born with health problems  and the reports have fans concerned what  is the status of your baby your  pregnancy yeah our family exists mm-hmm  we're just beginning it we got many kids  to have a long way to go and that's all  the artist and his wife choose to say at  this time  but while touring Paisley Park he showed  me their newly decorated playroom and  here is my favorite room the children's  to be the children's to come yes ma'am  the child in you or just the children  are the children there  and all those rumors about their baby  well the artist shared this with us it's  all good  never mind what you hear he said he  wants to in 10 years he's going to have  babies crawling all over him  honestly using around his neck and  calling him daddy do you want the same  thing  oh yeah I never wanted it more do ten  you really want ten you think Terry I  don't like it some twins in their second  when I met him I didn't call him Prince  I never called him that because I didn't  seem as that person cuz she slipped out  of that D remember I just talked to him  you know people always say well but what  if you you need them to bring you  something that's up to you something you  say you say hey hey so you just go  around the house so you never call him  you never you never slip and says I  never did cuz you never did call him so  it's not a big issue for me if it's a  man I would drop down drop the T if I  heard friends come from the kitchen I  would you go up there and scare me to  death does he make me laugh oh is he fun  [Applause]  I don't tell jokes I'm serious yeah  when we knew him as Prince he was  romantically linked with Sheena Easton  Kim Basinger vanity and Apollonia you  ever you know run into your past  girlfriends ourselves very seldom no  none I mean once once I got married it's  just the phone stopped ringing yeah what  would you like to say about your  relationship you know many people think  the artist formerly known as Prince is  flat-out weird y'all know a lot of  people think that so I asked him how he  responds to those opinions and you'll  find out if he regrets anything from his  sexy sexy past but first remember this  one  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  talking to me usually reclusive and  media shy artist formerly known as  Prince who's famous for singing about  sex and sex it's sex and more sex  I wanted to know do what all the  sexually provocative song titles over  the years have meant you know what does  it mean that you were just really into  sex if you just had this image of you  behind purple doors just kind of wildest  swinging from the their dubs and the  ceiling and it's just the worst that's  the image huh okay horny toad jerk out  of joy sex shooter do it all night Duke  meet baby bear you know all those yeah  but you know I've written some thousand  seven songs mm-hmm I went to a French  concert probably oh it must have been  ten years ago I know parts that it  touched parts of myself that I do you  know I had and I ended up going out  doing things I didn't normally do  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  you know because I think it's all part  of the experience of life and growing  and it's gotten me to this place and you  take one thing out of that and the  structure falls you know mm-hmm so I'm  I'm quite content creative environment  is like a wild one doing that some may  find a little unusual thanks and I must  be very attractive in this life what is  this  it's top-4 but I must say you know very  interesting on place it's just like your  mind  very interesting I'll take that as a  compliment  just in case you were wondering there  really are dogs at Paisley Park  have you ever perceived yourself as  being I know you must perceive yourself  as being different but ever perceived  yourself to think weird in any way yeah  yeah yeah understand everything's  relative now weird to me yeah probably  weird is can you living in Minneapolis  of all places many have this yeah yeah  we're always living in yet that's like  do you do you you will always live here  why it's so cold that keeps the bad  people huh I believe that like go to the  mall last time I went to the mall I took  about 400 people out with me so I don't  do that much do that really do you do  like what we would perceive to be normal  everyday stuff we know you always this  pretty on earth like a normal day I mean  I you would you know say I'm clean  you're clean I'm clean  what do you most want people to know  about you what do you first about what  do you think the perception is well I'm  sure after the past two years so it's  become quite strange yeah I hear they're  calling a Diane and the artist formerly  known as princess now  I mean if it's gotten to that point then  mm-hmm  okay so people think you're weird they  think you're strange  what do you want them to know the music  is imaginative outfit she'll know next  we're gonna go inside his special  wardrobe room where all of his clothes  are made that's why it's always so  pretty  [Applause]  [Music]  the artist formerly known as Prince is  just fascinating don't you think well  there's a whole lot more ahead but  tomorrow it was our nation's biggest  tragedy they said her husband killed the  president now chilling new evidence from  the JFK assassination that we were not  told the truth was Oswald a double agent  the evidence that Lee Harvey Oswald's  widow wants America to hear why were we  not Toby  Marina Oswald comes forward it's over  setup you do not believe your husband  killed John F Kennedy on Monday  [Music]  Sylvester Stallone his off-screen heart  a howl in slides baby girl that was  quite frankly was the worst time of my  life  Monday's Oprah but later in this hour  the artist shares a very personal  discovery you turn into a civil  interview you'll get to go inside his  music chamber with me we're checking out  the artists private closet such as your  waist there's another spectacular  performance coming up so stay right  there  we're gonna party like it's like  in the rain per movie  [Music]  during our conversation the artist  shared a very personal discovery he's  recently made about himself this is very  interesting recent analysis has proved  that there's probably two people inside  of me it's like a Gemini then we haven't  determined what sex that other person is  it did you say I'm not even sure what  sex it is or he or she earring is did  you say that yes I thought I heard that  what I'm getting from you is that you  were very much in touch with you both  sides of yourself you're masculine and  feminine side oh yeah yeah and always  happened  and so people grew up thinking that  you're weird or that you're gay because  of it and that never bothered you hey  whatever floats the boat like another  personality you're talking about well  what the they seemed to find was that  there was some someone I had created  when I was five years old  for whatever reason I'm not sure yet but  I hope to find out they like  psychologists therapists  well actually I found out because I took  some I took someone through therapy  uh-huh and you found out that there is  another person here living inside you  used to turn into a civil interview does  a person have a name  now we could call God that's what that's  what is so interesting to me is that I I  think that that's why I changed my name  I think that's who I am though I don't  yeah I very much feel divorced from  Prince you really do yes thanks being of  smaller stature to ever make you  question yourself question your I don't  know ability they to get day to get  women in the beginning no a question my  ability to play basketball because I'd  like to lose these are feeling ridicule  as a child because of your size mm-hmm  you did know yeah long time and how did  you handle that  that's probably when that person got  created you know somebody to care about  you love you and be a friend and that  rich everything they could think of  anything small in 1984 print starred in  the movie Purple Rain about a singer  from an abusive household a story much  like his own like your father was an  abusive man right that's what I've read  but I never I never know what to do with  you he had his moments what is the most  autobiographical scene in purple rain  for you I'll say that it was probably  the scene with with me looking at my  mother crying  [Music]  there was a time when we didn't live  together when I met him again  he was the jewel he was the most  beautiful person I knew and we are again  and estranged but hopefully we can hook  up again if not you know this is his  experience you know and he is living his  experience than what he wants I'm living  mine the way I want they'd be cool if  they hooked up but I can only hope  [Music]  if you ever wondered where the artist  gets all his clothes well on a tour  Paisley part I found out let me show you  these let me get this straight  there's just a department it just makes  your clothes it's me it's guys welcome  to this does yeah friends bribery  [Music]  [Applause]  sizes your waist 7:27 delectable yeah I  like that that I'd wear again brings up  okay we don't where there's no move we  don'twe this tomorrow but when you want  something new do you just come up and  say you know I'm feeling like I'm gonna  do Oprah I need something in cream did  you tell her they're constantly making  clothes over you  [Music]  and staff making the phone everyday next  one of my favorite experiences with the  artist formerly known as Prince  this would be a dream come true for any  of his fans  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  it  [Music]  but one of my favorite experiences at  Paisley Park was going to the place  where the artist creates his music let  me show you my piano  [Music]  we're in a purple piano  thank you for doing that is really gonna  skate for it for you and Tonka yes I was  very much so it was a way you took  yourself away hours on hours and hours  away you taught yourself to play at  seven years old yes  did you member your first sound yeah you  do yep  [Music]  [Applause]  the music comes to your head and then  you come here or sometimes you're here  and then the music just comes out JFK uh  played this at his wedding that was his  first dance Thank You Prince oh thank  you why not you should slap me you  should just slap me no I won't do okay  you should just I thank you a friend  friend thank you  it'll give a sweet man wonderful soul he  is in 1992 prince he was Prince then  signed a hundred billion dollar contract  with Warner Brothers Records the biggest  deal in the industry but their deal  turned into a public feud over who would  have the control and protested that  contract the artist scrawled the word  slave on his face y'all remember this  faith all those years or all those times  you were walking around with slave on  the side of your face what was that all  about to clarify that so people don't  get the wrong impression I I never meant  to be compared to any slave in the past  or any slave in the future the slavery  that I had undergone was in my mind and  as well as the business that I was in we  inked a one hundred million dollar deal  with Warner Brothers and that turned out  to be a little less than desirable 100  million dollars did deal yeah what all  that meant yeah it's like I was saying  before that you can go into record you  can go into to some form of art and if  you uh you have any sort of chains on  you it's not gonna come out it's cool as  it could be so you felt as an artist  enslaved yes it sounds like you've grown  no I'm pretty much the same so yeah yeah  I really do feel I have inside do you  think that it would have happened to you  had you not been enslaved  oh no absolutely not and I know I some  days i want to just call up folks at  Warner Brothers and just I Love You Man  really yeah  because of the journey and they're part  of the experience I'm thankful to them  for giving me the opportunity to be here  talking at you you know  this record is really important for me  because it's the first time that I've  recorded an album a complete album in a  state of complete freedom will we feel  the emancipation yeah I think so what  what you have to understand is that I  play most of the instruments myself so  when I going to do the guitar track this  is a happy free man recording we're  gonna hear what freedom sounds like  America  [Applause]  [Music]  [Music]  [Applause]  emancipation break the chain break the  chain next the artist performs a new  dance song he wrote about the way a man  should treat a woman it's on the album  CDs debt emancipation  [Applause]  [Music]  well the artist wrote many songs on the  latest three CD set emancipation that  are very personal and reflect where he  is in his life today and we know he's in  love well this one is called sleep  around and tells how to keep a woman  happy sleep around from the CD three CDs  emancipation  [Applause]  [Music]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Music]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  like she like it so you baby doll wanna  sleep  [Music]  [Applause]  next highlight for my visit with my new  friend  [Music]  I want to ask her one question before we  look how many more songs you think you  have inside yourself one a day the CD is  called emancipation you're gonna love it  you can workout to it it's a spiritual  kind of thing you can do them whatever  you want to do to it it's a fabulous OCD  set thank you friends and new  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  guests of the Oprah Winfrey Show is dead  the old sweet Omni Hotel located in the  heart of Chicago's Magnificent Mile she  guessed by our official carrier American  Airlines this winter ski the Rockies  with American veil Jackson Howe Crested  Butte purgatory and Steamboat Springs  American Airlines something special to  the slopes  [Music]